The big question now is,
can we write a program that finds the shortest path from start to goal?
To do so, let's give the grid cell names.
We have six columns named from 0-5 and five rows from 0-4 and
the basic idea I'll pursue is that I keep
the list of nodes that I wish to investigate further,
or as we call them search expand.
Let's call this list open.
So beginning we have one of one state on this list is 0,0,
my initial state and just to make sure I never pick this state again,
I don't want any cycles in my path,
let me just check mark the state with little red check.
I now can test whether the state is my final goal state.
Obviously, it's not. I'm not done with planning yet.
So what I'll do next, I'll expand this state.
So I'll take it off my open list and look at
all the successors of which there are two over here, 1,0 and 0,1.
Those two are now expanded so I check them.
One last thing I maintain for each of these states on the open list,
how many expands that it took to get there.
So there's a zero over here,
there is a one for these two states in red.
That's called my g value.
When I'm done with planning,
this will be the length of the optimal path.
Let's now go further and expand one of the two.
We always expand the one with the smallest g value.
But these are equivalent.
They both have a g value of one,
so it doesn't make a difference.
So let me expand the first one, is this one over here.
This one has three neighbors, 0,
0, 1,1, and 2,0.
But because 0,0 is already closed with a checkmark,
we don't consider it anymore,
which gives me 2,0 and 1,1 both now with a g value of two and we check those over here.
I now pick the node on the open list with the smallest g value,
which happens to be this one over here.
There's really no choice, it's the node over here.
This has two neighbors, 0,0 and 1,1 but both I've already checked.
So therefore, there is no expansion that takes place.
I only expand if I find an unchecked node.
So when you open these, try these two nodes over here and I
recurse and what's going to happen is,
my nodes will expand gradually into the free space
until I eventually hit the goal node and without proof,
the g value when I hit the goal node will be
exactly the number of steps it takes to go from the start state to the goal node.
The secret here for that to be the case lies in the fact
that I always expand the node with the smallest g value.
But we won't worry about this.
What I want you to do is to implement a piece
of code that implements what I just described.